you will be given a string and you need to find
the count of vowels using recursion so we
can write recursive function by passing the string and
passed the nth index of the string check If the
character at that index is vowel if it is vowel we need
to count it so invoked the next recursive call by passing
the string and last index as second to last index
That is str and n minus one or we need
to add one to it as it was a vowel
If it is not a vowel invoke the next recursive
call by passing str and n minus one index and
the recursive calls will work from n to n minus
one n minus two etc
So when n is less than zero we will reach the
invalid index so we can return zero
And that is our base case
For example if the given string is ICE pass the string and
its end index two to the function check if it
is vowel and e is vowel also Add one and
called the function again with str and n minus one
that is two minus one 1 now check
If this is a vowel
But C is not a vowel so do not add
one
We can simply call the function again with str and
n minus one that is one minus one zero
Now here check
If the character at index zero is a vowel and
I is a vowel So add one and invoked the next recursive
call with Str and n minus one that is zero
minus one minus one
And here n is less than zero
So we have reached the base case so we can
return zero
And now the recursive calls will return
So here we will get one plus 0 1 and that
is returned
And here we will get zero plus one
That is one
And here we will get one plus one that is
two which is our expected result.